---
author: donbstringham
comments: true
date: 2012-04-13 15:41:33+00:00
layout: post
link: https://daoyinchuan.wordpress.com/2012/04/13/practice/
slug: practice
title: Practice
wordpress_id: 1609
categories:
- General
- Practice
---

“Spiritual success is gained by daily cultivation. If you practiced for the day, then you have won. If you were lazy for the day, then you have lost.

Self-cultivation is the heart of spiritual attainment. Gaining insight and ability is not a matter of grand statements, dramatic initiations, or sporadic moments of enlightenment. Those things are only highlights in a life of consistent activity.

Whatever system of spirituality you practice, do it every day. If it is prayer, then pray every day. If it is meditation, then meditate every day. If it is exercise, then exercise every day. Only then will you be able to say that you are truly practicing spirituality.

This methodical approach is reassuring in several ways. First, it provides you with a process and a means to maintain progress even if that particular day is not inspiring or significant. Just to practice is already good. Secondly, it gives you a certain faith. If you practice every day, it is inevitable that you will gain from it. Thirdly, constant practice gives you a certain satisfaction. How can you say to yourself that you have truly entered a spiritual path unless you can
look back on years of daily practice and take comfort in the momentum that it has given you?”

- By Deng Ming-Dao
[_365 Tao: Daily Meditations_](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0062502239/grewayres-20)
April 4 Day 94
